Every man on this earth today can not say to another, with conviction, that there wasn't something they found fundamentally broken about their father.  Something they wished they could [[change]].  Some part of his marbleized [[character]] they didn't want to sculpt into a bastardized vision of David.  But in spite of wanting to do this and putting forth the [[effort]] in a lot of cases, it was never to any measure of success.  

So what? Every young man thinks something like this, and when you start talking about family anybody can make the claim, "[[things are messy]]."  There were [[challenges]] but mine were no greater or lesser than yours.  So you decide to be the [[change]] or a [[transition person]] person if you will.  You were going to break every single [[Habits|habit]] you [[perception| perceived]] as bad, wrong or useless.  You were going to be the man in your family that continued with personal [[growth]] as you got older, instead of being this person who moved and spoke and bled and cussed, but had about as much emotion as a victim of Medusa.  And yet, if I were to ask you the question, "What's actually different about your [[principles]] over his?"  How many of you would blubber and struggle to answer that question coherently?  Your [[perception]] of yourself is entirely skewed, because in public, where you put on your [[personality ethic]], and act like your different you're not just lying to those around you, you're lying to yourself.  And after the realization occurs the next question appears as, "Do you want to change?" If yes, do you carry  within yourself the [[discipline]] to change?  Do you really know where the differences and similarities lie?  If there was any hesitation to any of those questions the real answer is no.

"So where do I begin?" Is what any body who's on the adventure of trying to find their own [[unity with self]].  They look inward, see the generational faults passed down to them in some sort of twisted fate caused by what most call [[determinism]].   

And Dad, you were the best fuckin dad a son could ask for, full stop.  In every way I can think of you already are the [[transition person]].  All I want to do is carry your legacy forward by improving the [[Foundations of good men]] you instilled from me every waking moment we shared.  So no, this is not an indictment on you.  In every respect, this is my way of honoring the greatness I was too ignorant and blind to see it for what it was in the moment.  Thanks, Old Man.



