Belief is a powerful thing.  From [[politics]] to [[religion]], belief in a party or deity you share no [[characteristic]] with is the only thing forming a bond between you and it.  Sports franchises rely on belief.  Their ability to make fans believe that "this is the year" (Looking at you Dallas Cowboy fans, just move past 1995) is the largest needle mover to the very lucrative bottom line.  I could move this into extremist territory in both directions.  I could relate the "idea" of belief to almost anything in [[science]] or [[finance]] even.  But the idea isn't the relatability of a belief.  It's the [[security]] derived from the [[faith]] that is often [[minimizing|minimized]] by those that carry a particular prickly version of it.  While commonly [[maximized]] by those who [[perception|perceive]] themselves to carry one with a "higher" nature.  And if an internal belief is perceived to be of a higher status, regardless of social norm, then the believer can quickly descend (or ascend depending) into the category of perpetrator. 

[[Being cynical is easy]].  It empowers the cynic to arbitrarily [[set intentions]] that can be framed in ways that, on the surface, sound like [[choices]] based in "[[wisdom]]".  Take for example the simple idea of [[eliminate waste|eliminating waste]].  In theory this sounds like a [[net positive]].  And, depending on your belief or [[perception]] of waste, you might find yourself in alignment with our theoretical cynic.  Your [[interest|interests]] are in alignment.  Your [[curiosity]], your [[choice]] to feel the sought after emotion of [[belonging]], leads to the cynic gaining [[power|power]].  Power over what you'll ask.  Well, if you're asking that question then the answer is you.  The cynic has no [[empathy]] for you.  They feel no [[sympathy]] for those that feel a similar sense of belonging you felt at the outset.

Rapidly, what started as a [[partnership]] between yourself and the cynic became a group.  Then a gaggle.  And before you blinked a third time it's a crowd behind you.  The [[circle of influence]] surrounding the cynic seems to have expanded exponentially.  Such a drastic rise is curated by the willingness of those you now find yourself rubbing elbows with, giving the cynic the [[gift]] of [[Speaking for others|speaking for them]].  All because a single shred of paper had the same letter on it between them.

Of course, this is a bit of a hyperbolic and fringe case scenario.  Kind of.  You are of course free to disagree with me, but this however is exactly how the modern "MAGA Republican" movement came to exist.  Now, Donald Trump had much deeper pockets than the average basement dweller.  But as a theory the foundation is evident.  

Admittedly, politics is a relatively easy target.  Especially if this argument were to steer this stream of consciousness, emanating from the tips of my phalanges, on to exquisitely lubricated actuators enclosed in plastic caps to make a big [[Game Theory|game theory]] essay.  Which it isn't.  But the idea behind it is those that give the cynic his power to speak for them are riddled with [[fear]].  The fear is of the cynic's reaction to a defection now that they have given away their voice to another and by proxy the others who gave away their voice alongside yours. (Arbitrarily, yours of course. Reader, if you've made it up to this point, even if you disagree with me and hate my guts, you still have your own voice.)

Now, for the side of belief that is a little less aloof.  

Alas, we arrive to the belief derived from places where you would expect [[joy]] to be the preeminent emotion.   These are places where you [[Celebrate all accomplishments|celebrate all accomplishments]].  Large or small everybody, everybody is "blessed" if you will.  Sometimes though the same place where you engage in the [[practice]] of [[positivity]], mosque, temple, church or worship of any kind.  Music festivals, entertainment put forth by tenured thespians, or a frat party in an off campus house.  The [[relationships]] found in these places start just as simply as the one with the cynic.  [[Shared interests]] are the corner stone of the relational foundation.  The initial surge of [[joy]] can often be overwhelming.  So overwhelming in fact it acts as a [[distraction]].  

Now, before I continue I'd like to make something clear.  Joy is not always just a distraction for malicious action or intent.  Nor is it even a common indication of such (in my opinion), but to illustrate the power of belief from either end of the spectrum that is basic emotion. This is a necessary disservice to the many whole-hearted and truly joyous people I have both had the chance to cross paths with and the many many more I have not.

The guy has all the things she was looking for.  The ability to put forth effort to exchange barbs and quips over theoretical what-about-isms.  A dashing smile that makes her feel doted upon with its presence.  All things that, when presented with a small diamond from the handsome gentlemen knelt in front of her, she screams, "YES!" through streaming tears.  Her friends she's seen every Sunday since the third grade are all ecstatic.  A fairy tale is given it's happily ever after.  Until the couples [[priorities]] finally collide in opposition.  

[[challenges|Challenges]] arise that are insurmountable mountains disguising mole hills.  Neither learned to [[control your response|control their response]] to adversity.  And the [[decision fatigue]] that builds up eventually steams into an emotional [[reaction]].  Heavy cover makeup is worn every Sunday.  One of the long time friends notices, and concerned, offers to help.  The elder referred to the woman, somebody who's been like a grandparent, suddenly shifts tones that aren't even drastic enough to encapsulate the shift in the message.  And suddenly, the same songs of forgiveness and righteousness no longer fill the woman with joy and faith, but instead leave her feeling hollow, and envy.  The group of leaders lift up the rug for her to sweep herself under.  They never tried to apply their own "teachings" of [[understanding]].  They never offered [[guidance]], just a trail of tears. 

Joy can be just as, if not more devastating than fear.  At least with fear the expectation of [[roles]] is clearly defined up front.  Sure, you heard a joke.  But it was a legitimate threat you failed to recognize.

In either case what are you left with?

That's sort of the ironic beauty found at the end of traditional Shakespearean tragedy.  You're given the opportunity to take the [[failure]] and the [[fear]] discovered during the journey to calamity, and start using it for the act of [[learning]].  Or not.  Only the soul, tattered, pummeled and battered, has the power of taking the first step towards reclamation. It could make the decision to lie there, broken and defeated. 

That action, whichever it is, lies in whether your beliefs have given way to [[fear]] entirely.  Contrarily, do those beliefs give that being enough [[strength]] that the [[effort]] from the required [[actions]] of [[question yourself|questioning yourself]] aren't feared, but embraced.  

Personally, and I imagine not differently from you, yes you reading this.  I've been the main victim in my tragic story.  Multiple times.  The first, and most formative was in room with 13 other young men who experienced failure, some less often than others routinely.  

If you've never done folk-style or American style collegiate wrestling then a little exposition is required.  If you have feel free to skip to the next paragraph.  To be a wrestler you aren't required to lift the most weight.  You don't need to run the fastest over an arbitrary distance depending on specialization.  Hell, you don't even need to be considered athletic in the traditional sense of the term.  Will it help early? Absolutely.  But a common quote says, "Hard work beats talent, when talent fails to work hard."  And as a sophomore in high school I decided I wanted to work hard.  I spent 3-4 hours after school everyday practicing.  Sweating through multiple shirts an hour.  Bleeding from accidental headbutts.  Occasionally exchanging blows instead of technique.  All that work gave me a single victory in 16 competitive attempts that first season.  I could have quit, probably should have.  I watched at least  three young men leave that room and never return to it just that season.  But something at the end of that season didn't sit right with me.  So I did what any reasonable teenager does.  Gave up my entire summer break and spent every waking moment possible learning, practicing, and failing.  The joy didn't come the next season, I only went something like 12-12.  It was another year later, another summers worth of training after.  35-5, all county whatever, walking into the state tournament.  The only senior to make it there that season. Ultimately my performance was deemed worthy of a couple of division 2 level offers even. One of which I accepted.

Where I promptly failed academically after just a single season.  Wrestling career over.  

In the decade or so since, if I were to wallow, I could weave any number of personal stories into a catastrophe of failures.  And frankly, I don't think that makes me unique.  If anything it marks me as having the most average human experience possible.  

I [[chose]] not to wallow.  I spent the time between failures enhancing my [[capability]] in other areas.  Learning skills, through the determination I earned as a teenager.  That ultimately landed into the chair from which I string words together behind a display (I don't have a basement though, just a lamp).  

So I ask again, what are you left with at the end of a tragedy?

My philosophy on this is pretty black and white. Which, in a world that wades in the gray, makes me not a member almost by default.  Regardless, I believe you have two choices.  First, you can quit.  Give up, lie down, and wait for your soul to evacuate the vessel of flesh you carried it in up to the point of not wanting to bear the load any more.

Second, you force yourself up.  Fight the shake in your knees until you're steady.  Forcing the deadweight found in your legs to pick up one of your feet, move it forward of the other, place and repeat.  Because failure is nothing more than an opportunity shrouded in dismay. 

Ultimately, this is a decision every person will make, multiple times throughout there lives but the whole idea works like this:

Failure is what gives capability. Strength is earned through failure. Being honest with one's self is the key to progress. The courage to progress is gained through sharing opinions that are laughed at. Change is won via the verbal combat engaged in when sharing and defending opinions. Opinions should be strong enough to withstand thin scrutiny, but fallible enough to be swayed with new facts.  Winning is not measured by a public facing record.  It is recorded by answering the internal question; did I give it everything I was capable of giving today?

That is a belief I carry.  Molded within myself.  Giving it more power than any external belief system can, or ever will. 
/pandoc