If you have kids, you've seen this play out hundreds (or thousands) of times: new toy is obtained, and becomes something of an obsession until the box is in the bin and the shiny "newness" wears off. Then you find the pieces of that tantrum inducing toy in all sorts of strange places. Under the couch, or a bed, chipped off bits resigned to a dark life at the bottom of a toy box, and it is infuriating.  Something that was worth screaming about just a few days ago, has become little more than an after thought. But you keep it, maybe out of guilt, potentially out of spite, and then even you forget about it. Fast forward a couple months and you see your child holding that same toy, with the same glint they had in their eyes as they had when they first saw it. And it's being used, less like a singular object, and part of a more cohesive unit of play, a creative way. The object was not forgotten, it was simply waiting on its purpose to be connected to the other toys.  Your kid obsessed, not because it was new, but because they knew it had a place, and they forgot about it because they couldn't immediately figure it exactly where that place was. 

This ability to connect via obscure pathways is effectively taught out of us as we grow older and attend schools in the modern educational system (Ahrens, 2017). Think for a second, that term paper, that literature essay, the math homework, how often did you *revisit* the material *in order to connect it to the new lessons?* Compared to trudging ahead, through to the next chapter, the next lesson plan, the next literary analysis paper.  A child hasn't had the free association taught out of them yet, so when they circle back to something, they see it from a fresh perspective. One with experiences that shine with a light from an entirely different spectrum they couldn't have had before. Because there experience had not shown them that it exists until that moment the synapses fire and they [[let connections reveal themselves]].

The good news is this, by reading this...thing (essay sounds to formal, complete thoughts aren't typically structured, and this is definitely not a book, idfk man labels are stupid) you're effectively a witnessing that you can, in fact, change that. 

I absolutely abhor writing about myself, so bear with me for just a few sentences. The title of this article (yeah, that fits better) has sat in my personal obsidian vault for roughly a year. Created, put down, and nearly forgotten about...until today.  Then, the images of what I described in my opening, were my kids displaying that exact behavior. And I could finally articulate it in way I couldn't a year ago.

And that's the whole point. The thought carried enough emotional weight, without being completely formed, that it carried my hands to place where it could be stored. Incubated at the bottom of my creative toy box. Only to be discovered again, with more time passes, and the glint of a fleeting thought turns into a flame of creational momentum. Culminating in an output that is unique, inspired, and entirely my own.  

You can unlearn the linear method pounded into your head starting in kindergarten (first year of school in the U.S.). You can learn to be a child, exploring experimenting