### Draft 1

A thick white cloud of smoke chokes you, assaulting your nose with the smell of burnt rubber, from purpose-built machines simply heating their tires for a race. They slowly roll themselves to the starting line. Marking their entry are the staging lights at the top of the christmas tree central to the competitors. The top lights come to life first. As gently as 12,000 horsepower is able to, the cars deftly rock themselves into a final position. Then, the second set of lights illuminate in unison with first ones. The stage is literally set. All that power, potential energy engaged with a transmission brake at what sounds like an earthquake worthy level of noise. Three yellow lights flash for an instant, then green. And what was already incomprehensible noise becomes instant, visceral, chaotic, violent, momentary action. It shakes the ground under your feet in unison with a vibration of crushing weight that you feel in your chest and through your entire existence. Your vision shakes to a blur, your ribcage is rattled with all its contents vibrating with it, leaving you stunned and breathless, like emerging from a momentary vacuum. All that power stored as potential was let loose with no restraint and a blatant disregard for health or human safety. It became violent, kinetic energy for just a little more than three seconds. But it covered a quarter mile, and reached more than 300 MPH. Required a parachute to stop. Now the next two competitors are lining up to heat up their tires, and the previous race hasn’t been over more than a minute.

When you start to write, draw, paint, sculpt, compose and then share those ideas, seek out others’ opinions, you are effectively strapping yourself into one of these monstrosities. With no experience, no practice, and certainly no real comprehension of how the damn thing works. But you were brave enough to get into the seat.

An amateur would look at a scene like this and most likely call it something like momentary chaos or insanity. The veteran practitioner’s point of view is a polar opposite. They would most likely say that every single three second race feels like they lived an entire lifetime. Full of ups, downs, curveballs and all that a lifetime has to offer. By having the courage to strap yourself into the cockpit, you’ve quite deliberately put yourself between these two. Voluntarily placing yourself in a “no-man’s land”. You have made yourself vulnerable to critique from both ends of the spectrum.

The amateur will criticize from a place of jealousy, often born from lack of courage to strap themselves in. Because you have only just left them behind, you feel their critique is valid, even in cases where it’s entirely unjustifiable. The veteran has seen many with the courage to strap in the first time, but very few with the courage to strap in a second, third and fourth time. Again, we find a difference in the two. The veteran’s criticism is not born from jealousy; it’s born from the callus’s they wear as proof that they have done the work. And they are simply attempting to help you build your own callus. Specifically, they know they must start with the ability to ignore the uninitiated’s criticisms. The veteran is keenly aware of and vividly remembers taking their own first steps, fueled by nothing more than curiosity and courage.

Race after race, consistently strapping yourself in. Still not completely understanding exactly what it is your doing, you begin to lose the fear. You suffer loss after loss, but you stay curious, get investigative as you pick up little fragments of wisdom left by those that cleared the path before you. You soon begin to fill other lungs with a cloud carrying the smell of burning rubber that you hardly notice now. It’s part of the beastly machine you once feared. But, slowly, consistently, you showed up and attempted to tame it. Often feeling lost, stuck, forgotten about. When there were no eye’s connected to critical mouth’s is when the work rate peaked.

The veteran no longer critiques, but coaches. The amateur is voice lost under the roar of an engine. 12,000 Horsepower drowning out the memories of people you once believed to hold high regard to your own development. The monster is no more in your eyes. It is purpose-built tool, built by others, that you have come to yield with your own deftness. Your own style. Your own character is expressed in the way that you control it. Through curiosity, experimentation, seeking help from experience, and repetition via practice and competition, you now live entire lives in the span of 3 seconds.
### Draft 2
A thick white cloud of smoke chokes you, assaulting your nose with the smell of burnt rubber, from purpose-built machines simply heating their tires for a race. They slowly roll themselves to the starting line. Marking their entry are the staging lights at the top of the christmas tree central to the competitors. The top lights come to life first. As gently as 12,000 horsepower is able to, the cars deftly rock themselves into a final position. Then, the second set of lights illuminate in unison with first ones. The stage is literally set. All that power, potential energy engaged with a transmission brake at what sounds like an earthquake worthy level of noise. Three yellow lights flash for an instant, then green. And what was already incomprehensible noise becomes instant, visceral, chaotic, violent, momentary action. It shakes the ground under your feet in unison with a vibration of crushing weight that you feel in your chest and through your entire existence. Your vision shakes to a blur, your ribcage is rattled with all its contents vibrating with it, leaving you stunned and breathless, like emerging from a momentary vacuum. All that power stored as potential was let loose with no restraint and a blatant disregard for health or human safety. It became violent, kinetic energy for just a little more than three seconds. But it covered a quarter mile, and reached more than 300 MPH. Required a parachute to stop. Now the next two competitors are lining up to heat up their tires, and the previous race hasn’t been over more than a minute.

When you start to write, draw, paint, sculpt, or compose, you're crossing a threshold.  You're jumping the wall and placing your feet on the scorching asphalt that is the drag strip.  While the first time you share those ideas, asking others what their opinions of your creation's are, you are taking your first steps towards strapping yourself into one of these monstrosities. With no experience, no practice, and certainly no real comprehension of how the damn thing works. But you were curious enough and brave (some will call it stupid) enough to get into the seat.  Buckle the harness and prepare for launch.

An amateur would look at a scene like this and most likely call it something like momentary chaos or insanity. The veteran practitioner’s point of view is a polar opposite. A veteran would most likely say that every single three second race feels like they lived an entire lifetime. Full of ups, downs, curveballs and all that a lifetime has to offer. By buckling yourself into the cockpit, you’ve quite deliberately chosen to put yourself between these two. Placing yourself in a “no-man’s land”. You have made yourself vulnerable to critique from both ends of the spectrum.

The amateur will criticize from a place of jealousy, often born from a lack of courage. Because you have only just left them behind, you feel their critique is valid, even in cases where it’s entirely unjustifiable.  Simply put, you don't have the experience necessary to understand what is valid critique of your driving and what isn't. 

The veteran has seen many with the courage to strap in the first time, but very few with the courage to show up, strap in, and listen to the more constructive criticisms, with a laser sharp focus, and defined goal of improvement.  Just to lose race after race, struggling to control simple things like direction, timing and temperature. The veteran’s criticism is not born from jealousy; it’s born from the callus’s they wear as proof of the work they've done.  It tells those that know, "I've scraped the rubber off the hot rubber after a run. I've asked the mechanics to share not just their knowledge, but their tools in order to get some grease under my finger nails." With a clever, time tested design, their aim in the early harsh criticism is two-fold.  

First, weed out the weak.  If the heat generated by passion and the friction of learning, shown as the emotion of anger makes you want to quit, you never belonged within their ranks in the first place.  

Secondly, if bearing the pain generated by the same heat and friction doesn't make you flinch, then they are still scars, physical and emotional ones, that lead to wearing the same calluses the veterans carry with pride.  

The veteran is keenly aware of, and vividly remembers taking their own first steps, fueled by nothing more than their own curiosity and courage.

Mastery is never instantaneous.  Sure, innate skill differs on a case by case basis.  For some, 100 races will lead to the most basic understanding of control, timing and rhythm of heating up, rocking and launching.  Others may need 1,000 or more races to reach the same milestone.  This is something unpredictable, but by designing a system where a novice can earn their callus, this number becomes irrelevant.  You simply drop the visor on the helmet, and watch the tree until you arrive.

Just as you start to understand the how's and why's, the do's and don'ts is the same moment you realize just how much further you have to go. There are concrete differences here that make you hungrier than the day you first set your soles on fire after jumping the wall to the strip. The veteran's no longer criticize, but coaches. The amateur is voice lost under the roar of an engine. 12,000 Horsepower drowning out the memories of people you once believed to hold high regard to your own development. The monster is no more in your eyes. It is purpose-built tool, built by others, that you have come to wield with your own deftness. Your own style. Your own character is expressed in the way that you control it. Through curiosity, experimentation, seeking help from experience, and repetition through practice, failure, and competition, you can now live entire lives in the span of 3 seconds.

You soon begin to fill other lungs with a cloud carrying the smell of burning rubber that you hardly notice now. It’s part of the beastly machine you once feared. But, slowly, consistently, you showed up and attempted to tame it. Often feeling lost, stuck, forgotten about. When there were no eyes connected to critical mouths is when the work rate peaked.  And those same eyes, connected to the same mouths now fill the air with more praise than smoke.  

