# Foundations of good men
## You start with [[character]].
You implement a [[system]] to [[synergize (habit 6)]] your [[principles]] that is used as a guiding light for your daily decisions in life. This creates a man's character. Good men appear to have an abundance of [[maturity]] and [[Passion]] that drives not only the outward [[personality]] that is seen in public, but they use these tools even more reverently internally.  You see them genuinely happy spending time with their [[Family]], entirely engaged with the present activity.  The seem to have everything in life figured out and while it rains over your house the sun still shines over theirs.

But, what if I told you that man grew up with an alcoholic mother and an abusive father?  Does that change your [[perception]] of him?  Naturally, some will read that first paragraph and envision the image of a person.  That person will either be a vision of [[envy]], or that vision will be one of an [[idol]].  And that is the definition of [[personality ethic]] at work.  Lacking the [[openness]] to [[value the differences]] between the two of you.  You became [[prejudiced]] without putting forth the effort to [[become an expert]].  You lacked the ability to [[only do what's easy]] and simply start to [[Be proactive (Habit 1)]].  This is not entirely your own fault.  You simply used the [[determinism]] scripts ingrained by your surroundings during your formative years.  But by acknowledging and [[accepting]] these things without [[anger]], without [[fear]], and with [[openness]] to yourself. It's a small, simple step to becoming the best version of yourself.  The self that ignores the [[personality ethic]] that makes you feel a certain way about a stranger, and sees him at the worst as a peer.  

This is the starting point of the process to becoming a [[transition person]].  To becoming what that man has become.  The break in the link of generational chains, that simultaneously keeps the present and the future linked.  More akin to a [[pivot point]], or a generational [[paradigm shift]]. 