John Henry.  Hopefully that name rings a bell. The man that beat the machine, manually steel driving his way through a mountain faster than a steam operated drill could (at least, that's the movie I saw at a younger age).  A folktale that became synonymous with the heartbeat of American industry post world war 2. A rallying cry used by blue collar men and women when they demanded better pay, safety regulations, weekend freedom and overtime pay. Things that today, are ingrained into the structure of a modern construction workers life. Fought for by those that wore the boots before they did. 

In the original tale, John Henry beats the steam drill, 13 feet to 9, before he collapsed and died from exhaustion (This was NOT what happens in the movie from my childhood). And if you care to dig a little, like any good bit of folklore, there might even be a hint of truth to this story. But what happens in the real world is, steel drivers begin to work *alongside* the steam powered drills. Combining the tools of new with the wisdom and determination of old. Allowing a tunnel, 1.2 miles long, through hard red shale, to be completed in just 2 years. I should mention it's the year 1870, and I'm referring to the big bend tunnel. 

But here I am, back in the year 2026, reading an article (https://open.substack.com/pub/jahojariaho/p/keanu-reeves-shuts-down-elon-musk?utm_source=share&utm_medium=android&r=3w76ge) that portrays a face to face debate occurring between the beloved Keanu Reeves and the polarizing tech giant, Elon Musk.  The article has a title that, even to a click-bait numbed brain such as mine, grabbed my attention and earned my read.  It was interesting at first, then empty in the middle.  The ending is where John Henry, and his tall tale entered my mind.  The ending is where the "author" informs me the reader that this was entirely generated by an AI agent.  

The apostrophe's are not an accident, and I use the word "author" with an extremely loose context.  Giving a machine an instruction, twiddling your thumbs awaiting an output, then simply regurgitating that output and claiming to be an "author" is one of the most absurd things imaginable.  Sincerely, somebody who sits down, and carefully pieces their own thoughts together with prose.

And that's the difference isn't it.  That's the reason the machines from Henry's era never completely eradicated a human-centric work force.  Not because an urban legend beat it.  Not because the steam drill didn't belong entirely, but because once the foundation was laid that the steam drill was an improvement (it didn't die after all), but that *machine* is simply another tool to add to the steel drivers relatively small bag of utensils required for their trade.  

AI is everywhere currently.  Your social media feeds, creating content for those too lazy to attempt to learn a new skill themselves and exclaiming, "look what I did!"  Acting as if what they "did" was little more than some word processing while sitting on the can.  Every major company under the ever expanding tech umbrella is chasing the next evolution in artificial intelligence.  It's like progress needs to be made for the sake of making progress.

Here we encounter another parable: "We were so preoccupied with whether or not we could, we never bothered to think if we should" -(butchered) Jurassic Park (I think, I'm a book worm, not a movie buff).  If you think AI is the future, the answer, the cure-all; I have no proof it isn't. 

What I do have is much more than AI can ever give me.  Wisdom from experiences that are locked in a memory bank that only continues to grow naturally with the passage of time.  Something data centers are categorically incapable of without human input after time.  Emotion, brought upon by events that have, are, and will happen to me.  Again, impossible for a city block sized server farm to articulate.  

So where does that leave us?  Well, I'll admit here and now, I use AI, never to generate content, that would make me a prompt specialist, but to help me edit.  Find typos and grammatical faux pas.  It makes that process much quicker, and feel less like the Doom guy walking towards me, guns raised. It's a tool.  No different than the steam powered drill was.  

I believe that AI will be with us for a while.  I also believe it will continue to improve in its general ability to help us.  But in order for humanity to truly reach any modicum of a world in which every person is able to prosper equally, it can not be generative AI that does it for us.  Just like the steam drill wasn't able to entirely displace steel drivers.

The folktale of John Henry isn't just a story we tell school age children in order to teach them about hard work and dedication anymore.  It's the world we are currently *living* in, something Ai is incapable of.  A tool is only as smart as the person wielding it.  Attempting to wield AI as a tool that can, or should replace the raw, imperfect, varied magic humans are capable of....would be like trying to nail in a screw.