In order to understand how to lay [[Foundations of good men]] you must first understand their personal framing.  You can't exactly pour a concrete foundation without having the framing plans for a house can you? You'd just be pouring concrete in a random spots with no dimensions to base the shape on.  You could end up with a house that's mostly patio without a door way to step out on it.  But what is "personal framing"?

Well, it's best if you can think about yourself first.  What are the things in your life that bring you true joy? Not dopamine hits like scrolling through social media that make you happy for 60 seconds at a time.  I'm talking about the things that when you were a little kid and mom and dad said were going to do this today instantly brings up vivid memories that almost force you to smile.  Those are what I want you to understand as the things that bring you true [[joy]].  Well now repeat the process for things that bring you [[pride]], whether that's through a sense of accomplishment or completion of a difficult task or project, or if it's something completely off my radar here.  Something that brings a sense of [[joy]] but the happiness is centered around you and you alone.  The final piece are what you hold as your personal [[principles]], the things that are your guiding light in life.  The things you believe make up the person you are based on the decisions you make based on these guiding lights. Take some time here, grab a pen if needed (I highly recommend always having a writing utensil and a way to use it handy, my 1 and only piece of advice).  If your more visual please feel free to explore these places in meditation, or if you are a faithful person pray on them.  But, if the answers you give here are superficial, your bucking the work, and your frame is much more likely to crumble under load.

Now you understand your own personal framing.  Pretty complex right?  Well every person you have ever interacted with, no matter what "station" they might be at in life, has the same level of complexity within themselves you just discovered.  It's not complex to you, you understand it, you live it, you breath it. And, you have for every day of your life thus far and will continue to for the rest of them, long may they be.  

You can reframe just about anything....requires lots of effort.