# Simple tools
## hard work doesn't need to be hard
Niklas Luhmann was often quoted saying "I [[only do what's easy]]". Because, for him all was easy.  Not because he was some genius or worked harder than anybody else, but because he developed a [[system]] that essentially [[prepared]] his work for him during his periods of relaxation.  [[Reading]], [[note taking]], [[repetition]], and [[Child-like Wonder]] with various subjects led him to become one of the most prolific writers of the 20th century.  What most fail to realize is that he simply gave himself [[feedback loop opportunities]] constantly, unconsciously, by simply wanting to remember what he read or heard or saw.  So he took a note, added a little [[context]] so he could reference the source again if needed. and then [[let connections reveal themselves]].  His work was always easy because, the "hard work", was simplified to him carrying a pen and some paper.  The [[complexity in simplicity]] is a fallacy to most, but to Luhmann, and Ahrens ([[smart notes]]) who also uses a similar system, the hard work disappears into the void that is their free time.

The hardest work Luhmann had to do was read something, a paragraph, a scholarly paper, a magazine, and try to sum up it's [[core concept]] into a sentence or two that was sufficient for him to remember what he read, and what he thought a short time later.  By simply aiming to [[Be proactive (Habit 1)]], [[start with the end in mind (Habit 2)]], and correctly [[put first things first (habit 3)]] he was able to become on of the most prolific, and uniquely [[variety centric]] writers in modern history ([[smart notes]] Ahrens 2008).  He accomplished this through a form of positive [[conditioning]].

Imagine J.J. Abrams attempting to make a psychological horror film.  It isn't what he's known for, there aren't a whole lot of opportunities for cinematic explosions that look incredible on a silver screen in that type of film.  But take your [[prejudiced]] view of Abrams known propensities, and skill set, and imagine it's his highest grossing movie he produced.  His previous [[actions]] don't lock him into being an "action movie guy".  He sought to [[develop ideas]] he may have simply didn't share with the public, until he reached a mental [[pivot point]], that caused him to change his [[Habits]] to now give you a [[paradigm shift]] of what he's actually capable of.  And the [[capability]] to do that is in everybody. Which might be the most anti-guru, most truly motivational shit that can be written, typed, or told to an individual.  

Submitting to [[openness]] is about making the [[learning]] process fun.  The best way to do that is by [[renewing yourself]] with a new [[conditioning]] that creates repetitive positive [[feedback loop opportunities]].  That doesn't start with expensive courses, or tools, or schemes.  It starts with a pen and some paper.  Creating your own web of thoughts in an [[Organized Chaos]], and then exploring that web with the [[Child-like Wonder]] of a spider revisiting a past home.