**Tyranny of Faith**, by *Richard Swan* is the second entry into the trilogy of **The Empire of the Wolf**. And with as much confidence I can exude through prose say that the this sequel doesn't disappoint. It delivers. A rich, living organism that could only have been generated by the fantastic opening effort found in **Justice of Kings**. 

To say this title is perfect would be blasphamey. The first book in the trilogy offered a grounded, murder-mystery experience set in a low-fantasy, grim-dark setting. Where magic was a tool used only by those that had gone through rigerous training. But even then, it left them exhausted at what traditional fantasy would have marked as mild at worst. 

Here we are reintroduced to that known place in its largest city and yet another mystery. But things are quick to escalate. This is where my pain point began. It was suddenly like the mysticism was stripped away, and suddenly the journey I thought I would be going on opened up a portal to a different dimension under me feet.  Leaving me falling in a void of endless nothingness. 

This feeling of falling lasted what seemed like too long, even for a volume as thick as this one. But I just couldn't put it down. 

This is where *Swan* shines in his abilities. I liked the main protagonists at the end of **Justice of Kings**. Here, my endearment for them became predominant. I wanted so badly to see the resolution of the interpersonal conflicts, almost more than the main plotted conflict at times. Simply by acknowledging, and tying the loose ends found at the end of the first installment at correctly paced moments, did I find myself entrenched with the 4 characters that are felt, not just understood, through this novel. 

This journey was not what I was expecting it to be. And at times that was troublesome. But the resolution has all but begged me to dig in to the final chapter of this fantasticly jarring trilogy. Admittedly, if what you enjoyed in the first book was the procedural mystery nature of it's tale, your going to find a sort of skewed resemblance of it here. Which may not be the tea you came to drink. This book, for me was excellent. And receives an excellent rating, not just due to my enjoyment, but the fundamentally proctoral display of skill showcased by *Swan*.  8.8/9 give this codex to the Emporer immediately. 